We added our front-end code for signing up and logging in,
let's now work on the back-end, so on
NodeJS side. There we got routes for creating posts, updating posts,
now we want to create routes for creating users or logging users in.
Let's start with creating users and since we have posts.js file in the routes folder for working with
posts, it makes sense to also add an auth.js file or a user.js file here.
You can choose whichever name you want,
I'll go with user.js. So this is the part where I want to implement login and sign-up routes.
So this is the user.js file and we can copy the part to the top of posts.js,
not multer,
we don't need to handle image upload, just Express and then also create the Express router.
So let's copy all of that but remove the post model import and the multer import,
we just want to create the Express router and at the very bottom, we want to export it, so module exports
is our router. In-between,
we can then register the routes and there, I want to have two routes for now, two post routes to be precise.
The first one is handling all requests going to let's say api/users or user/signup
and to make sure that we have api/user in front of this,
I will of course go to app.js where I already import my post routes and there, I will also implement my
user routes by requiring ./routes/user. So this will import my user routes
and now here at the bottom where I set up my post routes and forward requests
aiming at /api/posts slash something to post routes,
I will do the same for requests targeting api/user slash something and I will forward them to
the user routes.
So now any requests where the paths starts with that will go into my user.js file and anything which
has then a /signup thereafter will reach this route
and here we have the well-known function with request, response and next where we can handle the incoming
requests.
Now the question is, what do I want to do in this function?
And the answer is of course, I want to create a new user and store it in the database. For that, I need
a new Mongoose model because we got a new type of data now.
So in there, I will add my user.js file and just like in the post.js file,
I will first of all require Mongoose and then create a new schema. For that,
I will use Mongoose schema and export that, so I'll actually copy the entire code from the post model,
rename this here however to user schema
and of course also rename it here at the bottom.
I will also name my model here user and not post
and of course my schema will look a bit differently.
Here I will not have a title, content and image path,
instead my user will have an e-mail which will be of type string in the end which is also required,
so required is true just like I had it in the posts and I will also add another field here, unique and
set this to true.
Now that's something important though,
unique does not act as a validator.
So this means it does not automatically throw an error if we try to add a new entry with an e-mail
address that does already exist, well it will eventually lead to problems but we can't rely on this
validating data when we try to save it,
we'll have to do this differently.
Unique instead allows Mongoose and MongoDB to do some internal optimizations from a performance perspective
since it knows that this will be unique,
it's not there to validate input, unlike required which would throw an error
if you don't provide an e-mail. So with that, we got the e-mail configured, we'll also have a password which will
be of type string and which is also required.
This is my user schema for now and I'm using this to create a user model which we then can use in other
files.
Now I mention that we can't use unique here as a validator,
however I want to make sure that I don't save user data or a user with the same user ID twice
and thankfully, there is a package we can use. For that, I'll stop my back-end server or any process, doesn't
matter
and I will run npm install --save mongoose-unique-validator,
that's a third party package which will add this validation logic for us.
It will not add it automatically though, we have to connect it to our schema which we want to validate.
So in the user.js file, I will add a new import, unique validator or any name you like and I will require
the Mongoose unique validator package we just installed.
Now we have to use this as a plugin,
that's a feature provided by Mongoose,
we can add plugins to schema, that's basically extra functionality which Mongoose will run on the schema
and then it depends on whatever this plugin does, well how it will influence the schema. Unique
validator is a plugin that will simply add an extra hook that checks your data before it saves it
to the database.
We add such a plugin by taking our schema, the user schema here and calling the plugin method, a method
provided by Mongoose
and here we simply pass the unique validator. With that, we validate this
and now we will get an error if we try to save a user with an e-mail that does already exist.
So now we get that validation in place and now we can restart our server logic there,
now the next step is to save our users whenever we get a request sent to our new route here.
Let's work on this in the next lecture.